down
down Samsung Galaxy S one of the most
popular names in the world of
smartphones and has been for years
interestingly it's kind of a long name
you might be wondering where Galaxy s
comes from and if you think you already
know what you're thinking is probably
wrong apparently Galaxy comes from a
wine often enjoyed by highlevel Samsung
Executives and then they proceeded to
name like 20,000 phones after it now
here's the thing Samsung will try
anything that's kind of their thing like
this is something I've known about them
for a long time from reviewing their
phones but just from researching for
this video like they have a ton of
phones in every single imaginable price
bracket or feature set or spec sheet
here you can even try to guess these
they've had a Samsung Galaxy F series
what do you think the F stands for
stands for fun then there's the Galaxy Z
series Z for zero and Galaxy m is you'd
think mid-range but it actually stands
for Millennial and then Galaxy a that's
some of their most popular affordable
smartphones so naturally it stands for
Alpha there's galaxy W for Wonder Galaxy
R for Royal the list goes on but then
the flagship that's lived at the top of
with their lineup is the Samsung Galaxy
S and S stands for super smart yeah
super smart anyway the first ever
Samsung Galaxy S comes out in 2010 just
to set the scene like this is 3 years
after the first ever iPhones come out so
the iPhone 4 is about to come out this
is a couple months after the Nexus 1
gets unveiled blackberri is quicking in
their boots like the entire smartphone
industry if you want to call it that is
totally in a reshuffling things are up
for grabs and it's still very much in
its infancy too the second most popular
phone selling by volume looks like this
it's a Nokia 3720 classic and so Samsung
launches the first ever Galaxy S super
smart into the world with over two dozen
variations this is going to be a bit of
a theme here you know it a pretty basic
phone big touchcreen on the front some
capacitive buttons a plastic removable
back a single camera today we have
Samsung Galaxy s24 and it's Ultra
refined tightly packed supercomputer in
the palm of your hands with high
resolution cameras and displays powerful
processors AI features like just a ton
of optimizations that have stacked up
over the years to get to this point so
today I've got every single Samsung
Galaxy S that has ever been released
they're all in front of me actually it's
every main Galaxy S variant from the S1
to the s24 everything in between and I'm
going to review them all and and some of
them I've reviewed before and others are
like the first time I've ever gotten
them working on camera but either way
it'll be fun to go back and go through
this is the story of how we got to where
we are today and where it started so
buckle up we're going to Jump Right In
also stay tuned for the graphs at the
end like usual they're super fun so
Samsung Galaxy S this is the first one
summer 2010 and yeah it does clearly
look old with the classic four capacitor
buttons at the bottom Android 2 .1 and
it's a micro USB port at the top next to
the headphone jack but I feel like right
off the bat you can see Samsung
differentiating itself here first of all
this is a reasonable display this is a
4-in screen and it's a Samsung made
AMOLED display so that's a huge deal
back in these days you could see a
meaningful difference in battery life
just if you set a wallpaper with a bunch
of black in it because the pixels didn't
have to light up on the OLED and that
was A New Concept back then it's also
only a 1500 Milah battery so every bit
of savings you can get means a lot also
of course this was back in the day when
you could just pop the back off any
phone and just take the battery out swap
it out at any moment have two batteries
if you want to swap them in and out real
quick while the others are charging we
will witness the death of this feature
during this video but then using this
phone now like okay it feels slow
obviously but it's not really in the
laggy or unresponsive way it's just slow
like there's a lot of solid waiting for
anything to happen especially heavier
stuff like the web browser or opening
the camera you just have to slow down a
little bit give it a second even though
this launched with what at the time was
the fastest Graphics processing of any
smartphone thanks to a Samsung made chip
inside oh and speaking of cameras it
launched with a single 5 megapixel
camera on the back which was capable of
shooting actually 720p video right out
the box it asks for a memory card to do
a lot of things like shooting videos
because it only comes with two or 4 gigs
of storage out the box but there's a
Micro SD card expandable storage slot in
the back of the phone so you could go
right up to 32 gigs right off the bat so
I never used one of these phones but my
favorite thing about it now is it it's
kind of got the modern shape already it
has like kind of flat sides and a flat
back there is no camera bump uh there is
a small bump in the plastic actually
over the rear-facing speaker because it
was common to put your phone down on a
table or something and without that bump
it would block the speaker and so that
bump literally is just to keep the
speaker open so you can always hear your
sound now you remember how I was saying
Samsung will kind of just try anything
that's been true since the first one
like this first ever Galaxy S launched
with like I said over a dozen variants
and so you might recognize this one as
the Samsung Galaxy S Stratosphere and
you can tell because this is the one
with a little Verizon stamp on its
forehead here but you might have had the
Samsung Galaxy S Vibrant that's what it
would be called if you got the variant
that was made for T-Mobile or the
Samsung Galaxy S Epic 4G which which is
what they call the one that launched on
Sprint now in hindsight honestly it
feels like this was Samsung's way of
just getting around carrier exclusives
cuz they basically just made a slightly
different version of this phone for
every carrier in America with a little
bit of a different design and a little
bit of different features only Samsung
only Samsung little did they know this
would be the beginning of a whole empire
so the sequel the first sequel is a
Samsung Galaxy S2 second gen can teach
you a lot so right away a couple things
this phone is not bigger and noticeably
sleeker than the first Galaxy S and
these were back in the days where the
percentage increases year-over-year with
some of the stuff they did was crazy on
paper like this went from a 1 GHz chip
to a 1.2 GHz dual cord chip so that just
more than doubled the processing power
it also went from a 4in screen to a
4.3in screen it goes from a 5 megapixel
720p camera to an 8 megapixel camera on
the back shooting 1080p it doubled the
ram up to a gbyte it bumped up to a
1,650 mAh battery and the amount of Base
storage I guess you would say octed from
2 gigs all the way up to 16 and it did
all that in a phone that got thinner and
it also added NFC so it added pieces and
now this is an 8 12 mm phone so this is
one of the thinnest phones in the world
at the time that it came out now the
starting price also did go up a lot from
$3.99 to $5.49 but this phone did launch
into a relative success this sold like 3
million units in the first two months
this
was definitely the first one to show up
on my radar I never owned one of these
phones but I definitely saw it and
thought about it but then this next one
the Galaxy S3 in 2012 this is the first
Samsung Galaxy S that I actually owned
and I remember loving this thing I
remember it well too the jump up and
size again was very real so it's all the
way up to a 4.8 in phone now which
believe it or not like this is starting
to push the limits of what people
considered an appropriate phone size cuz
I remember around this time there were a
lot of phones that were hitting exactly
4.65 in like that was a popular phone
screen size for the big phones at the
time and anything near 5 in kind of felt
like weird like a tablet size and here's
Samsung's flagship pushing 4.8 in of
screen and then the four capacitive
buttons down at the front are now just
three buttons the search button's gone
so it's a home button that's a physical
button with back button on the right and
menu on the left and this is also the
first time we got a voice assistant on
the phone and they called it SVO
clever I know this is a a pretty direct
response to we just got Siri announced
on the iPhone the year before but you
know S Voice s for Samsung they also use
S for a bunch of other stuff S Notes so
Samsung voice S Voice Now S Voice wasn't
good but then again neither were any of
the other voice assistants that were
coming out so this is mostly just people
poking around asking it to do things
random facts just weather things like
that what turned out to be much more
significant with this phone is just this
super Sleek design design the whole
thing is shaped like a thin Pebble that
you could probably skip across a lake
it's inspired by Nature the whole OS
leaned into that it had a ton of water
droplet sounds everywhere the lock
screen went from swipe to unlock to
dragging your finger through this water
like it was a pretty strong theme for
them but I remember using this phone and
reviewing it this is back in college for
me I loved it it was also received very
well and the combo of like being super
slim and fast and having a huge OLED and
S Voice had it starting to get touted
like the iPhone killer um but I think
more interestingly they thought this
phone was big enough to Warrant an S3
Mini cuz this is a 4.8 in screen like I
said kind of giant and so they came out
with the one with a 4-in display Galaxy
S3 Mini at the same time cuz of course
they did but the next year we got
Samsung Galaxy S4 which was the
beginning of a lot of things what do I
feel like the fourth generation of any
major new product is like the defining
one this is this one's no exception now
of course they're still making gigantic
leaps on paper with specs cuz these
little pocket computers are getting more
and more capable of everything they do
so goes from a 4.8 in 720p screen to
being one of the first phones with a 5
in 1080P screen in the age of a bunch of
new retina displays that are aiming for
the best pixel density then they also
had variance all the way up from 1.4 to
1.9 GHz dual core processors it again
doubled the Ram from 1 to 2 gb and that
single back camera went from 8
megapixels to 13 megapixels so this is
the first time you could take 1080p
videos from the camera on the Galaxy S
and then watch them on the 1080p screen
on the front of the Galaxy S pretty sick
this also goes from a 2,000 millah
battery to a 2600 Mah hour battery still
removable uh a 30% increase is pretty
crazy but again they just keep aiming
for one day of battery life that's been
a theme since this long AG go like yes
these things get more and more powerful
every year and they're doing more and
more stuff but as long as they can hit
one day of battery life they seem cool
with that now if you want more proof of
Samsung just trying a ton of things this
phone had a ton of random features some
of them actually are kind of interesting
cuz they feel like the the AI features
of back in this day so like this is the
phone that tried head tracking smart
scrolling so when you're reading
something you can tilt your head forward
and backward to scroll through the page
it's just insane it had smart rotation
so this is actually cool if you have
auto rotate on but you're looking at the
screen while reading something and then
turn sideways it won't rotate the screen
it'll keep it right side up Smart Pause
is fun you're watching a video you look
away from the screen it'll automatically
pause you look back it'll play again so
there's lots of stuff like this some of
it sticks some of it doesn't fine but
this was also partially used to justify
another increase in price for this phone
so S4 at launch I don't know if you
remember this it launched at 6
$150 this is also the first time Samsung
made an active version of the phone so
another variant so Galaxy S4 Galaxy S4
Active so this added IP67 certification
and a more rugged design it was a TFT
LCD display instead of AMOLED and it
traded some other small downgrades for
like physical buttons and a slightly
thicker phone with some flaps to cover
the ports I'll tell you what was not
really a major hit though this was one
of the first major incidents of a
Samsung phone battery swelling Catching
Fire and burning up on someone now it
didn't go happen to a ton of people it
wasn't enough to become a major Trend
but it's something to sort of remember
for the future foreshadowing now by the
time we get to Galaxy S5 Samsung is
starting to hit their stride I think
with the Galaxy S another huge battery
bump now it's up to 2800 milliamps and
another huge screen bump all the way up
to 5.1 in diagonally and across the
board this is uh I think fully Flagship
in every dimension it's a it's a 2.7 GHz
processor on some variants all right 2
to 3 gigs of RAM up to 32 gigs of
storage and it's a 16 megapixel camera
that now shoots 4K video also the bottom
left button has gone from a menu button
to a multitasking button to match the
three primary buttons needed to operate
Android but also says a lot about what
it's capable of but then of course
alongside all that is the absolute
classic Samsung just trying things and I
think the Telltale sign for this stuff
like is when you see them try it for one
generation just to throw it at the wall
and see what sticks and then it's gone
the next year like they added this
little sensor back here next to the
camera flash on the back that's a heart
rate sensor so you could measure your
heart rate plugs into S Health that
didn't last very long they also added
this weird texture for the first time to
this plastic back that you know made it
a little softer yes but also totally
made it look like a Band-Aid plus it
even came in this flesh color that also
didn't stick around long they also added
a fingerprint reader to the home button
fun fact back in these days you actually
had to swipe your whole finger across
the home button to get it read of course
fingerprint readers have stuck around
but it doesn't have to be swiped anymore
so that's improved significantly and you
can see this weird port at the bottom
here the Galaxy S5 has a sort of a
double Port basically it could be used
as just normal micro USB for charging
but if you wanted full USB 3.0 data
speeds there was a special like
double-ended cable you could plug in to
use all the pins and get that kind of
weird that didn't stick around long
either also there was a a flap on the
bottom of all these phones for water
resistance and they were super easy to
fall off and this one also fell off
naturally they also released both an
active and a separate sport version of
this phone alongside the regular Galaxy
S5 of course they did so Samsung Galaxy
S6 came out in 2015 but truthfully this
was the beginning of a new era for
Samsung phones you can look at it and
see it this is one they entered the
modern age for better for worse so this
phone was the first one with a fully
glass back instead of plastic which yes
made it their first non- removable back
cue all the outrage in the comments of
every YouTube video at the time but it
also added uh wireless charging and they
dropped these metal rails and metal
buttons on the sides that felt way more
solid than all the plastic we were
working with on all the flagships that
came before it and this phone is Sleek
like footprint wise it's literally the
same size as an iPhone 15 Pro from today
but turn it sideways and it's one of the
slimmest phones ever thanks to having a
2550 mAh battery yes that's actually
smaller than the previous year now this
is a recipe to make enthusiasts
particularly mad when you go backwards
it's not great so they heard that this
went from a 2800 to a 2500 milliamp
battery and it's not removable anymore
and it also no longer has the micro SD
card for expansion of your storage and
on top of that you also went from that
weird USB 3.0 thing down technically to
USB 2.0 but aside from that this still
did feel like their first really modern
piece of Hardware this is also the first
time we're getting a
1440p AMOLED display it's crazy sharp
already we haven't seen a higher
resolution since then and it's also the
first Galaxy S Flagship with Optical
image stabilization in the primary
camera so this is a really big camera
upgrade and it was the first Galaxy S
Flagship to use 64-bit processing I do
remember there's a lot of positive
reception around this phone obviously
viously from being well put together in
metal and glass now and having good
features and just generally being the
same price as the previous year I just
feel like there was one thing holding it
back especially Among Us critical
reviewers from being the obvious best
Android phone available at that time and
her name was TouchWiz see around this
time there were also some other big
Enthusiast Android options like Nexus 6p
and 5x which were stock Android and then
there was HTC1 M9 just down the street
with their own HTC software LG G4 was
out with their own software and like
every Android device seen at this time
when it comes out it's like what are the
specs what are the features what's the
design and then what is the Android skin
that you have to deal with to get it now
Touchwiz has gotten better over time
it's you know a little less bloop nature
sounds but it's still absolutely a skin
on top of Android rather than super
integrated into Android itself which can
make performance feel a little slow it
can slow down how quickly updates come
to this phone over time cuz they've got
to go through Samsung but it gives you a
bunch of extra features in return So at
the time if you go back if you watch my
videos around the phones at this time I
always preferred like stock Android OEM
just straight from Google it's always
the fastest updates and it just felt the
cleanest and most coherent where Samsung
TouchWiz just had this this colorful
cartoony look to it this feel to it it
was a little cluttered but it it it had
the features it had What mattered anyway
with S6 they also tried a little thing
called the S6 Edge and Edge Plus because
there was this war being fought at the
time every time you saw a keynote with a
new smartphone announcement they always
mentioned screen to body ratios and so
every Flagship if they can improve the
best number they would always brag about
the screen to body ratio how thin their
bezels are and the best phones at the
time were hovering around 70% meaning
70% of the front of the device is screen
and the bigger that number the cooler
the phone looks so this S6 Edge thing
came along and it's another bit of
Samsung Innovation just trying some
stuff but they literally bend the OLED
display right over to the edges of the
phone and use curved glass to make it
look like the display is like bleeding
right over the edges of the device hence
the edge name obviously there's still a
bezel but it kind of worked it looked
really cool uh this actually came at
first from when they originally tried it
in the Galaxy Note which they had it on
one side of the screen which is some
like software tickers they literally put
like a stock ticker on the side of the
phone they would try anything to see if
it worked and when it did they put it on
both halves and now it's on the Galaxy S
and it felt like the flagship thing so
this phone got up to a 76% screen to
body ratio with the S6 Edge Plus this is
starting to feel like the top of a
flagship lineup now Galaxy S7 was a kind
of an incremental year in between you
know holding it now you can tell they
didn't really feel the need to change
too much like it's the same size same
screens and resolutions same storage
sizes up to 128 gigs and they actually
brought back expandable storage by
popular demand so I guess you can talk
Samsung into some stuff and you still
can't take the back off this thing but
they went ahead and added a Micro SD
card slot on the SIM card tray which is
clever but what I feel like they really
realized this year is two things one wow
you can really shove a lot of batteries
in these things and two The Edge is the
flagship people love the edge people
just love the screen melting over the
sides things so they're going to do a
lot more of it so the regular S7 was
great but the S7 Edge had a 3,000 Mah
hour battery and the S7 Edge Plus had a
3600 mlia battery and then the S7 active
had a 4,000 mAh battery but for
reference this is also the same year
that the Galaxy Note 7 came out so you
may recall the issues that plague the
phone and its 3500 mAh battery the exact
issue the reason why the note 7s started
blowing up and having dangerous battery
problems was specifically a design issue
using a thin separator between two
electrodes in a battery it was just
damaged way too easily where wild
reactions would occur when that damage
happened for as many gates as we've had
for smartphones like Ben gate whatever
this has to be the greatest PR disaster
in the history of smartphones like I
think by a long way like people this got
banned on planes like people would just
ask do you have a Samsung phone like I
don't think you want to take that on the
plane it was literally recalled
worldwide they took all of them back
they couldn't sell it anymore it's a big
issue and honestly a lot of tech
companies would never recover from that
but Samsung at this point was
established enough they were big enough
they were trying enough new things that
they could weather that storm which is
impressive then Samsung Galaxy S8 this
is one of my favorite phones they added
a lot of things to this phone now still
classic Samsung thrown an absolute
metric ton of stuff at the wall to see
what sticks now I definitely didn't love
all of the stuff that they tried but I
love that they were trying stuff and
they tried so many things that these
phones just feel a world apart so first
of all there was an S8 and an S8 plus
and both have fully curved Edge displays
so Samsung's realized that this
Advantage is received really really well
and they can just keep touting their
massive screen to body ratios plus
they've refined their Edge screen apps
feature it's subtle it's out of the way
but it's useful for those who want to
take advantage of it then they also
tried this new pressure sensitive layer
underneath the display right around the
home button so the display can always
respond to pressures in this area no
matter where you are even while the
screen is off now this is also as you
may have guessed right around the time
that Apple was trying 3D touch or Force
touch in the iPhone and both of these
didn't last very long but they tried and
they also tried a slightly taller
narrower 18 and half by9 aspect ratio
which actually did nicely keep the ever
growing screen size to be pretty
reachable uh since they've also gone
from capacitive buttons below the screen
to all onscreen buttons so now talk
about screen to body ratio like we are
really cooking they also switched to
USBC for the first time sick easy win
people were asking for that last year
anyway but then with that they also
tried this thing called Dex which is
like if you plug that USBC Port into a
computer monitor you get this whole
computer UI which just uses the phone as
like a trackpad and then you might have
noticed the extra button here on the
left- hand side so fun fact for the
entire history of every single Samsung
Galaxy S so far they have always had
power button on the rightand side volume
rocker on the left hand side and that's
still true here but they've added a
button underneath the volume
rocker and yeah that's that's the Bixby
button so Bixby is the new voice
assistant replacing SVO on Samsung
phones and Samsung really leaned in hard
with this one so not only did it get a
dedicated button to activate it all the
time but the camera also now has Bixby
Vision which is kind of like a an
awkwardly specific competitor to Google
lens and this is Samsung really leaning
into the whole AI assistant thing for
the first time and I would say to mixed
success then they also tried a
fingerprint reader on the back of the
phone this time since there's no home
button anymore love that and then they
also tried this this plastic Snap-on
keyboard which I think honestly might be
in my top five worst smartphone
accessories of all time but even after
all of that I think the most important
or the most impactful decision for this
phone for Galaxy S8 was their choice to
use Qualcomm Snapdragon chips in some
regions and Samsung's own made exos
chips in other regions now at the time
or even in hindsight this was a pretty
smart move maybe even ahead of their
time because this is Samsung going all
right we want to make our own chips for
our phones so that we can maximize the
efficiencies and all the the power and
the things that we do in our phones we
want them to all be built by us and also
to not give Qualcomm so much money while
we're at it but also in hindsight this
failed spectacularly this was like an
ongoing thing they really wanted to do
but because they didn't go all exos
right from the get-go they split it they
had some exos and some Snapdragon the
Snapdragon phones would consistently and
regularly outperform the exos version of
the same phone across the board better
performance better efficiency better
battery better heat it literally got to
the point where prospective buyers would
jump into subreddits and forums to try
to find where they could import a
Qualcomm version of the phone instead of
the xnos one available in their own
country and there are a whole bunch of
tutorials on if you're buying a
secondhand one how do you know which
version you're getting just based on the
serial number just so you can avoid the
exos version like I said in sight ahead
of their time a bit here but big
backfire nevertheless there was lots of
other stuff that was so new about this
phone it Justified another increase in
price all the way up to
$750 that's today's prices so Galaxy S9
I'm going to say this was Peak Samsung
Galaxy S I loved this galaxy S9 and
again it was Galaxy S9 and S9 plus now
this was a relatively incremental update
versus S8 but you know slightly thinner
bezels
same Ram same storage but a slightly
improved processor nice colors I like
these colors and then they also moved
that fingerprint sensor on the back from
right next to the camera to right under
the camera otherwise you know what
basically the same thing but then they
had to try some stuff so this time they
tried this dual aperture thing with the
camera and it was super cool basically
it could snap between f1.5 wide open and
f2.4 a variable aperture in a smartphone
it's it's a clever little thing that
would let you receive as much light as
possible in low light situations but
when you have plenty of light it would
stop down to 2.4 and it would get more
in focus it would be a sharper better
looking photo and I remember I loved it
when I used it other reviewers loved it
when they used it and then it was gone
from the next phone Samsung we missed
this bring it back but honestly this is
one of those phones picking it up now
like I've talked about this before if
you could bring back any old phone
design from whatever year and just
modernize it with new specs and new
software I think between HTC1 M8 or M9
and this phone pretty good candidates
this this thing is Sleek it's just a
great size it's a 1440p OLED USB type-c
still has a headphone jack obviously the
fingerprint reader is in a good spot
just a really great overall package and
I said as much in my original review
back in 2018 now is it still Samsung
software yeah but at this point there
are so many features jammed in here that
it's kind of undeniable the utility and
yeah people are totally willing to live
with it as long as you know what you're
getting into with a Samsung phone fun
fact this is also the year that Samsung
unveiled the Galaxy home a small Weber
grill shaped speaker designed to be an
AI assistant in your house with Bixby
it's been about 2,000 days since that
announcement no word on it since then I
don't think it's officially been
cancelled maybe they just want us to
forget about that one so then Samsung
graduates to the Galaxy S10 this I think
could be argued also maybe as Peak
Samsung since they've now basically just
gone full screen to the point where
reviews are complaining about the last
few millimeters of forehead and Chin
like you see how the chin is just a tiny
bit bigger but yeah up at the top we've
gone right up to the earpiece and the
selfie camera is now a cutout in the top
right hand corner giving birth to a
whole new genre of meme wallpapers
screen to body ratio is approaching 90%
now now and we're basically just looking
at Samsung's best-in-class 1440p AMOLED
and not much else and now these phones
have gotten irreversibly big S10 has a
6.1 in display and the S10 plus would be
6.4 borderline tablet sized 10 years
removed from the original but truly
entering us into the Modern Age this is
the first Samsung phone with more than
one camera on the back and in Samsung
fashion they just jump straight to three
obviously so there's a primary camera a
2X telephoto camera and a0 5x Ultra wide
phones would never look the same after
this point every phone up until now so
far has had just that tiny little camera
bump just a single little circle or oval
on the back but as soon as you open this
box you're never going back cameras are
now a feature on the back of a phone and
you'll also notice there is no
fingerprint reader on the back of this
phone because this is also the first one
that they tried that ultrasonic
fingerprint reader underneath the
display glass and it's they pretty much
nailed it right from the GetGo I
remember testing it and seeing if it
will work underwater and if it was
scratched at all it was fine it haven't
really improved in much since these days
so it seems like they nailed it they
still use it but the thing that maybe
brought this phone the most into the age
of modern smartphones might just be the
price so Samsung's been throwing a ton
of stuff at the wall for years and now
they've just built out this whole lineup
but S10 starts at
$900 when it comes out and then they
have the S10 plus which starts at at
1,000 they also had an S10 5G which was
an even bigger even more expensive
version of the phone with a bigger
battery to support you know 5G radios
because 5G is sort of burgeoning at this
time expensive phones I think that
actually is why one of my favorite new
releases around this time was this
little new thing they made called the
s10e and this thing you know it's not
quite a mini but this is where Samsung
made a couple little corner cutting
decisions to separate the true Flagship
from something a little more budget
friendly so for $750 it has slightly
smaller and slower charging battery and
a power button fingerprint reader
instead of the ultrasonic unders screen
one but honestly probably a better deal
than the flagships that it was up
against so now on to the next one Galaxy
s20 and no we didn't skip any phones
here basically 2020 is the year Samsung
decided that they were going to sync up
the year of the calendar with the year
of the phone so we have s20 in 2020 I'm
sure that has nothing to do with the
fact that the number was always slightly
behind the flagship iPhone but now this
galaxy s20
looks
blank boring soulless what happened like
this feels like this is a complete blank
phone like if you put the S10 next to
the s20 and then not to jump too far
forward but the S21 it looks like they
took a year off with the s20 like this
might be the most generic phone of all
time now to be fair there are other
phones that have looked like this and
again this is Samsung's flagship for
years and we know they're going to I
start to play it safe but in hindsight
this one is pretty dull it also happens
to be the first ever Galaxy S since the
very beginning to move the volume rocker
to the right side that's a choice it
also is the first one to not say the
model number on the back at all with the
text it's just blank and it's also the
first Galaxy S to follow in the
footsteps of the iPhone after making fun
of them and removing the headphone jack
also a choice now I do love that this
was officially the first Galaxy S
Flagship with 120 HZ display and they
actually moved the smaller hole punch
camera to the top middle and was the
first to be able to record 8K video so
it's still gaining capabilities it's not
like the ball didn't move forward at all
with this phone but probably the more
interesting Dynamic is what was
happening at the very top of the lineup
see this is the first year of the Ultra
phone so s20 still a regular siiz phone
th000 phone but they also decided to
make a gigantic phone with the most
possible numbers and the highest 10
possible specs and make it an Ultra and
this was kind of fighting at the top of
the lineup with the Galaxy Note because
up until this point you know they tried
a whole bunch of stuff and they ended up
having this particularly successful
high-end phone with a stylus in it that
was if you wanted even more than the S
could offer you could go buy a Galaxy
Note so this phone in this year kind of
just like its design just kind of got
forgotten until later in the year when
they dropped The Fan Edition the Fe of
the exact same phone cut a couple things
down 10 80P removed like one or two
features 700 bucks and this phone was a
great deal this one my phone of the year
but also fun not so fun fact uh this
galaxy s20 has also started swelling
like the battery has started to bulge to
the point where it's pushing the back of
the phone off of the chassis through the
glue so I'll just say I've had a lot of
smartphones come through the studio we
review a lot of phones obviously and
we've had basically a large sample size
of smartphones in long-term storage and
the only brand that's had more than one
smartphone whose battery swells up like
a balloon to the point where we have to
get rid of
it is Samsung but then the year was
2021 and Samsung drops Galaxy S21
definitely bringing us up to the current
design language that is so recognizable
as a Samsung phone so this triple camera
is now on the corner of the back it's
unist able now in fact this might be
their best one with the metal piece
melting over the sides and specifically
this purple and gold color way I think
it's kind of iconic this is also the
beginning of the base models being
extremely boring I'm calling it now like
the the the action's way higher and
lower in the lineup like the note
fighting the ultra for Supremacy that's
crazy also The Fan Edition and the a
series kind of fighting each other to be
the best overall value but sitting in
the middle kind of no man's land that
just can't mess anything up and has to
play it safe well that's exactly what
the S21 did they actually bumped down to
a 1080p display they're back to Flat
displays now no more expandable storage
in this model no more charger in the Box
for this model whatever the industry is
doing that's what they're doing like
there's no leadership here there's just
just enough brand cache that like if
they make a Samsung version of the phone
that everyone's buying in stores and put
it next to that in the store
people will just buy the Samsung one so
Galaxy s22 is more along the same track
slightly more boring colors slightly
flatter edges all the way around but on
the upside this thing also does
basically have perfectly thin bezels all
the way around at this point so I think
the screen toider ratio now is well into
the '90s and frankly I don't even care
what the number is anymore I just feel
like there's so little bezel to hold
with my fingers that anything less
wouldn't really make any sense so the
bezel is effectively gone at this point
it makes perfect sense to go back to the
perfectly flat displays because Samsung
has now realized and everyone else has
realized that those curved displays
they're kind of cool and they look cool
in the past but they were kind of a
crutch to make the phone appear to have
a larger screen to body ratio than it
actually did but now that we have the
tech to go right up to the edges and the
corners you don't have to curve the
display anymore it just looks sick and
is flatter and is more durable so
actually maybe the most notable change
on the outside here is these phones are
now slightly smaller than the previous
year so it went from 6 .2 and 6.7 in to
6.1 and 6.6 in for s22 and s22 plus and
there is no doubt in my mind that that
is specifically to give more room and a
bigger Gap to the Ultra phone at the top
of the lineup the ultra has been doing
battle with the note it's winning it
stole the Spen from it and so with these
boring default base phones for 750 bucks
flat totally fine just just look up
there though there's some more expensive
phones you can spend more money so the
Galaxy S 23 was interesting for one
reason and one reason only no more exos
version so every single Galaxy s23 and
Galaxy s23 plus and s23 Ultra ships with
the same slightly customized Qualcomm
Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy and yeah
performance is great you know for all
the years that they've been trying to
catch up the xnos chip to the Snapdragon
chip they finally gave up on it which
you could argue is good news because
everyone now gets the good Snapdragon
performance and efficiency now but it's
also kind of bad news because there's
less competition there's that much less
incentive for Qualcomm to do anything
particularly great here the whole goal
for exos chips was supposed to be better
customization and integration and while
we got rid of that they can still claim
with s23 to have done at least some
customization because they've like I
said they've made it a four Galaxy chip
so it's not quite the off-the-shelf one
everyone else gets what's
different slightly higher clock speeds
slightly more powerful because they've
got better Cooling in these phones so
mission accomplished aside from that
they've removed even more character by
getting rid of the signature camera bump
and making an even more generic and
Universal appeal phone than ever before
just same set of cameras same aspect
ratio same features just slightly more
battery in both versions nobody's saying
these phones are bad they're just not
making exciting strides the way they
used to back in the day which brings us
to this year's Samsung Galaxy
s24 even more boring colors and even
more generic design and even more
playing it safe than ever before this
year it's the Snapdragon 8 gen 3 and
this chip enables some pretty
substantial AI features which they lean
into it makes the phones really good
stuff like live translation and
generative photo editing call screening
and my personal favorite Circle to
search is awesome but a lot of the AI
features are now making their way to
some other phones and circle to search
isn't an exclusive the pixel has that
too and frankly aside from just getting
flatter edges and slightly bigger
batteries they share a lot of parts with
the previous year's phones like the
cameras uh the screen resolutions they
bumped up a little bit but functionally
the same screen to body ratios the same
maybe the buttons are clicker maybe
that's enough these phones are all grown
up now so now we've seen the glow up the
different eras the plastic to the glass
the iconic to the static but my favorite
way to visualize all these different
types of improvements is the graphs so
welcome to my favorite section the graph
section now before we jump fully in a
quick word from our Channel sponsor
dbrand fun fact they've been supporting
these devices since the Galaxy S4 that
is a long time now they're also
supporting all the way up to Galaxy s24
and I think this year with these phones
a lot of us were expecting to get ch2
support to get kind of like that ring of
Mag safe style magnets but for whatever
reason the Stars didn't align so this
phone doesn't have that but with dbrands
cases for the s24 series they all come
with magnets built in so that means
basically any ch2 or mag safe
accessories will work on the s24 so they
essentially give you that easy alignment
on any wireless charger pretty sick uh
you can check it out at the link below
in the description so let's take a look
at how far these phones have come these
are really interesting and there's a
couple of them I think Samsung is the
first one that has has notable ups and
downs in their progress graphs which is
really interesting it kind of feels like
they're going backwards but there's
reasons behind all of it also this could
be a way crazier graph because they
obviously split out and Fork into a
bunch of different models The Edge
models the plus models the ultra models
the active models but I'm just sticking
with just the base models just for pure
Simplicity of visuals so first up screen
sizes so these are the screen sizes of
the base Samsung Galaxy S over every
single year starting at the original 4in
Samsung Galaxy S then really quickly
jumping up into the fives and then kind
of slowing down and settling in right
around 6 in you can actually see a
slight dip where the S10 was 6.1 in then
it was 6.2 again then back to 6.1 to
make room for the ultra then back up to
6.2 again feels like now there's a sort
of a dedicated gigantic phone so this
rate of growth has pretty much evened
out so the huge phone is the ultra which
is 6.8 in which is crazy but here's a
fun fact based on this chart maybe it's
not a fact but you can make an argument
that the Galaxy s20 was kind of peak
Samsung cuz that is the same screen size
as today's Base phone but hold that
thought let's look now at battery sizes
so you know battery life hasn't really
improved dramatically we're still at a
day for a good phone but the physical
capacity of these batteries they able to
fit in these phones has improved
significantly as well so you can see it
starts at, 1500 Milah hours removable of
course and nearly d
by the Galaxy S5 but then it dips right
when they introduce the edge phones then
they shoot back up again but again kind
of flatlines in line with a certain
memorable battery related event but then
they eventually got the courage to walk
back up the base phone all the way to
4,000 milliamp and what do you know
again you can argue Galaxy s20 is Peak
Samsung that's the first year of the
4,000 mAh battery and that is still the
battery size again now the primary
camera megapixel count this one's a
little more interesting maybe a little
more classic improvement over time of
course megapixels don't mean everything
but it's fun to see the priorities
increase over time at the beginning
there was a lot of incentive to just
level up from 720p to 1080p video and
then to 4K video but once we hit 8K you
know there's not any reason to go too
crazy with megapixels beyond that of
course the highest end Ultra phones
quickly blasted the ceiling way up all
the way to 100 megapixels and then 200
this year which is nuts but for the
Baseline phone you know most people's
screens aren't 50 megapixels so I think
this is a very appropriate Plateau but
then last but not least starting price
we all know what happened with
smartphones over the years and here you
can see it visualized the steep climb
through 400 500 600 bucks right up to
the
$900 ceiling for the base Galaxy S this
is the base phone now the most expensive
phone has of course gotten dramatically
more expensive too so again that ceiling
lifting with the ultra has allowed
Samsung to go way up to $1,300 starting
and today you can pay $1,660 for the 1
TB Galaxy s24 Ultra but that has at
least helped bump the base price back
down a little bit to the $7.99 of today
so that's how we got from here to here
from Galaxy S1 to
s24 these videos are super fun to sort
of look back and actually visualize that
progress over time I also feel like I
already know which one we want to do
next get subscribed make sure you see
that coming up either way thanks for
watching catch you guys in the next one
peace from two gigs
all I deserve that